Add Unbonding Period Explanation (#5322)
w3f/polkadot-wiki: docs/learn/learn-staking.md

days in the past, it lacks the security of slashing protection.

Essentially, this period establishes a cadence for synchronizing with the chain or acquiring a
checkpoint within a timeframe that engenders trust. It's worth noting that while the choice of a
{{ polkadot: <RPC network="polkadot" path="consts.staking.bondingDuration" defaultValue={28} filter="erasToDays"/> :polkadot }}{{ kusama: <RPC network="kusama" path="consts.staking.bondingDuration" defaultValue={28} filter="erasToDays"/> :kusama }}-day
period is somewhat arbitrary, it unquestionably provides a higher level of security compared to a
shorter period.

Looking ahead, there may be a Request for Proposals (RFP) for implementing a mechanism for fast
unbonding through an unbonding queue. Importantly, this proposed change will not alter the
{{ polkadot: <RPC network="polkadot" path="consts.staking.bondingDuration" defaultValue={28} filter="erasToDays"/> :polkadot }}{{ kusama: <RPC network="kusama" path="consts.staking.bondingDuration" defaultValue={28} filter="erasToDays"/> :kusama }}-day
period's role in maintaining security; instead, it will ensure that an excessive number of stakers

> cannot unbond too swiftly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Cons of Staking

- Tokens will be locked for about
  {{ polkadot: <RPC network="polkadot" path="consts.staking.bondingDuration" defaultValue={28} filter="erasToDays"/> :polkadot }}{{ kusama: <RPC network="kusama" path="consts.staking.bondingDuration" defaultValue={28} filter="erasToDays"/> :kusama }}
  days on {{ polkadot: Polkadot. :polkadot }}{{ kusama: Kusama. :kusama }} No rewards will be earned
  during the unbonding period.
- Possible punishment in case of the active validator found to be misbehaving (see
  [slashing](#slashing)).
- Lack of liquidity i.e. You would not be able to use the tokens for participating in crowdloans or
  transfer them to different account etc.

#### Unbonding Period Length

> The
> {{ polkadot: <RPC network="polkadot" path="consts.staking.bondingDuration" defaultValue={28} filter="erasToDays"/> :polkadot }}{{ kusama: <RPC network="kusama" path="consts.staking.bondingDuration" defaultValue={28} filter="erasToDays"/> :kusama }}-day
> unbonding period serves a crucial role in mitigating ex post facto slashing, particularly in the
> context of guarding against long-range attacks. When a client encounters a chain finalized by
> [GRANDPA](./learn-consensus.md#finality-gadget-grandpa) that originates more than
> {{ polkadot: <RPC network="polkadot" path="consts.staking.bondingDuration" defaultValue={28} filter="erasToDays"/> :polkadot }}{{ kusama: <RPC network="kusama" path="consts.staking.bondingDuration" defaultValue={28} filter="erasToDays"/> :kusama }}
> days in the past, it lacks the security of slashing protection.

Reviewer: Adding the context for unbonding period and linking it to research docs

```suggestion
The unbonding period provides a safety net for slashing offenses identified in [past eras](https://research.web3.foundation/Polkadot/security/slashing/npos#slashing-in-past-eras), which can hold the respective validators and their nominators accountable. The
{{ polkadot: <RPC network="polkadot" path="consts.staking.bondingDuration" defaultValue={28} filter="erasToDays"/> :polkadot }}{{ kusama: <RPC network="kusama" path="consts.staking.bondingDuration" defaultValue={28} filter="erasToDays"/> :kusama }}-day
unbonding period is crucial in mitigating ex post facto slashing, particularly in guarding against long-range attacks. When a client encounters a chain finalized by
[GRANDPA](./learn-consensus.md#finality-gadget-grandpa) that originates more than
{{ polkadot: <RPC network="polkadot" path="consts.staking.bondingDuration" defaultValue={28} filter="erasToDays"/> :polkadot }}{{ kusama: <RPC network="kusama" path="consts.staking.bondingDuration" defaultValue={28} filter="erasToDays"/> :kusama }}
days in the past, it lacks the security of slashing protection.
```

Essentially, this period establishes a cadence for synchronizing with the chain or acquiring a
checkpoint within a timeframe that engenders trust. It's worth noting that while the choice of a
{{ polkadot: <RPC network="polkadot" path="consts.staking.bondingDuration" defaultValue={28} filter="erasToDays"/> :polkadot }}{{ kusama: <RPC network="kusama" path="consts.staking.bondingDuration" defaultValue={28} filter="erasToDays"/> :kusama }}-day
period is somewhat arbitrary, it unquestionably provides a higher level of security compared to a
shorter period.

Looking ahead, there may be a Request for Proposals (RFP) for implementing a mechanism for fast
unbonding through an unbonding queue. Importantly, this proposed change will not alter the
{{ polkadot: <RPC network="polkadot" path="consts.staking.bondingDuration" defaultValue={28} filter="erasToDays"/> :polkadot }}{{ kusama: <RPC network="kusama" path="consts.staking.bondingDuration" defaultValue={28} filter="erasToDays"/> :kusama }}-day
period's role in maintaining security; instead, it will ensure that an excessive number of stakers

> cannot unbond too swiftly.

Reviewer: I think this may need more clarification. We are mentioning "Fast unbonding" and, at the same time, saying that there is no alteration in the 28-day period.

Author: maybe @AlistairStewart can explain this better?

Reviewer 2: I'd say any future RFP would be beyond the scope of the wiki until it is out there to reference.

Reviewer: Thank you. We will remove the RFP related text.
